[gasping]
- Huh?
[grunting]
- Hey!
- Donnie. thank you.
I'm sorry.
We'll get another nurse
to replace Jesse.
- Do we even know where
these ICE assholes took him?
- No. but the hospital
attorneys are all over it.
[indistinct shouting]
I know you got child duty--
what's going on?
- It's a code Hula Hoop.
Central 14.
- Move. move. move. move.
move. move. move. move.
[indistinct radio chatter]
- What the hell happened?
- He attacked Emma. so I gave
him a shot to settle him down.
- Are you all right?
- [gasping]
- Let's see.
- [grunting]
How did he get a bloody nose?
- He slipped.
- Can I see?
- He had her in a headlock.
- Uh. where's Ogilvy?
- Upstairs.
They let him scrub in on that
kidney stone turned triple-A.
- Oh. great. on the one day
med students
might actually be useful
in the ED.
Oh. uh. present company
excluded.
You're doing great.
- Sure.
Hey. uh. can I get
a selfie with you?
- With me?
- Yeah. you're kind of a legend
among med students.
- Really?
- They call you
Phantom of the Pitt.
on account of you
secretly living
in the hospital for months.
[camera shutter clicks]
- What? It wasn't months.
- Still waiting on labs...
[phone rings]
X-rays. meds.
- PTMC.
Go ahead. Medic Command.
- Where are all the nurses?
- There was a code Hula Hoop
in Central 14.
- Oh. no.
- What's that?
- Hospital worker assault.
- Who?
- The new nurse Emma.
- Is she okay?
- I don't know.
I think so.
Smoke 'em if you got 'em.
This place is going tits up.
- Okay. are we
all good in here?
- Oh. yeah. boss.
we got this.
- Are you sure
you're all right?
- Uh. I think so.
- Okay. good. Come.
So what exactly happened?
- He grabbed Emma.
He threw her up against a wall.
I ran in and gave him a shot.
- Right.
And did he slip before
or after the shot?
- Before.
- Yeah. he had me
in a headlock.
I didn't see what happened.
- What did you give him?
- 4 milligrams of Versed.
- Who wrote the order?
- I had it in my pocket.
I was on my way to waste it
when shit went sideways.
What?
- Okay. so now he's altered
from alcohol. Versed.
and a head trauma.
Now he's gonna need
a head CT to rule out
intracranial bleeding
and a fracture.
- Would you rather it be Emma
with a head injury or worse?
Don't worry about it.
We got this.
- No. there's no we here.
You need to pass this patient
off and report him.
- Fine. Emma. you're done
with this bastard.
I'll handle him now.
- No. no.
this is
my emergency department.
and I'm telling you
to pass it off.
- These are my nurses.
and I choose
what cases they work.
and if you think for one minute
I'm putting anyone else
from my staff at risk
with that asshole. you better
give your fucking head a shake.
Come on. Come on.
- MVA coming in.
- Okay. I'll be right there.
Thank you.
- [softly]
Did I kill my son?
- No. he's not dead.
He's recovering
in pediatric ICU.
- We'll be back to check on you
again shortly. Ms. Azurmendi.
- Um. has her husband
arrived yet?
- Yeah. but he went
straight upstairs.
- Really?
- He may have just wanted
to see his child first.
Let's not jump to conclusions.
Dr. Robby. can I have a word?
- Shoot.
- In private.
- People are gonna
start to talk.
- [scoffs]
Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
What is this about?
- I'm going to recommend this
ED have two attendings on shift
at all times moving forward.
This department is
clearly too much
for one person to handle.
It's not healthy
for you or the patients.
and I'm very concerned
by what I've witnessed today
with some of the staff.
What is going on
with Langdon and Santos?
I saw them having it out
like it was fight night.
Dr. Langdon hasn't even
been here for ten months.
and you told me this morning
there was nothing
to worry about with Dr. Santos.
- There isn't. There isn't.
Santos and Langdon have beef
because she's the one who
turned him in for taking meds.
- I'm sorry. what?
- Santos is responsible
for revealing
Langdon's benzo addiction.
- Was he stealing drugs
from this ED?
- This ED is
the best of the best.
and I would put it up against
any emergency department
in the country.
And it is going to be yours
to fuck up.
so don't fuck it up.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
- [sighs heavily]
- You're not supposed
to smoke out here.
- Really?
Seems to be working
for me so far.
How old are you. kid?
- I'm 21...
[softly]
On Tuesday.
- Jesus.
some kind of idiot savant.
- We no longer use that term.
It's derogatory.
- You bruise-easy Millennials.
- Actually. I'm Gen Z.
- [scoffs] Even worse.
I was stripping at Purgatory
to put myself through school
when I was your age.
Snowflake.
- Hey. Amy?
Yeah. I'm getting off
later than I thought.
Um. I'll give you a call
when I get a better idea of--
[tires squealing]
- I need help!
- I got to go.
- He can't breathe.
- I got the airway.
You take the pulse.
- Yeah.
- Oh. shit.
- Oh. my God.
- Okay. trying jaw thrust.
- Radial's weak and thready.
- What's his name?
- My dad--uh. Oliver.
- Hey. Oliver. can you open
your eyes for me?
Okay. here we go.
Okay. one. two. three.
- Drive-in with severe
respiratory distress.
- Left-sided dialysis shunt.
probable renal failure
and fluid overload.
- Have respiratory
set up BiPAP.
- When was his last dialysis?
- It was supposed to be
yesterday morning.
- I'm gonna need
a nitro drip ASAP.
- You got this?
- Yeah.
- Is that the guy
who attacked Emma?
Is he going to CT?
- Yeah. Ms. Emma here
needs an H&P.
- Uh. Cassie. can you give
Emma here a workup?
- Start a chart.
Victim of assault.
- Really?
- I'm fine.
- He was choking you.
- He had me by the head mostly.
- You're a patient now.
Full examine
in South 18. McKay.
She also needs to make
a statement to the police.
- Is that really necessary?
- Yeah.
- Absolutely.
Don't worry.
I'll be there with you.
- Come on.
let's get you a spot.
- Well. your guy
just bumped my guy for CT.
- Now he's my guy?
- Duke's gonna chew me
a new one 'cause he's been
sitting here forever.
and I'm never gonna
get out of here.
- Tell it to someone who cares.
- You know what?
You should care.
because if you gave that guy
a serious injury with force
inflicted from a sedative
you are not licensed
to prescribe--
- Anyone else uses force
to stop an assault.
they're a hero. but a nurse
does it. and we're punished.
- You just happened to have a
vial of Versed in your pocket?
- It was extra from the medics.
Good timing. I guess.
- When we waste
a controlled substance.
we need a witness to sign off.
- I was on my way to
when I spotted that asshole
attacking a girl.
Anything else. Nancy Drew?
- Where you going?
- Taking a pee.
Do I need your permission
to do that. too. now?
[indistinct chatter]
Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!
[stomps foot]
[breathing heavily]
[monitors beeping rapidly]
- Should we intubate?
- Uh. best to avoid that
if possible.
Pressure support
and afterload reduction
buys us time for dialysis.
- BiPAP starting at 10 over 5.
- Good hard squeeze.
good lung sliding.
but there's a ton of B lines.
- Pulmonary edema.
- Which is best treated
by what. Dr. Javadi?
- Uh. nitrates.
- Dose?
- BP 198 over 132.
Pulse 120.
Pulse ox only 85.
- Good BP.
Let's start at 400 mikes per
minute for 2 to 5 minutes.
- I was asking Dr. Javadi.
- Don't you always start low
with nitro. then titrate up?
- In flash pulmonary edema.
we do the opposite.
- What he really needs is
dialysis to get the fluid off.
- What's his dialysis schedule?
- Monday. Wednesday. Friday.
He missed yesterday
'cause of a wedding.
We tried to go
to the center this morning.
It's usually open on Saturday.
but I think they closed
for the Fourth.
- Where do you live?
- Uh. Brookville.
- That's. like.
an hour and a half away.
- Yes. ma'am.
I tried Pine Ridge Hospital
in Ford City.
but I didn't know
they shut down.
- Yeah. they sure did.
[sighs]
- All right. sister.
How can I help uncluster
this clusterfuck?
- PTMC emergency.
what do you got?
- You ready to finish
our conversation?
- We talked. okay?
Now I got an ED to run.
- Please.
- Okay.
- Talk to me.
- Tired of this shit.
- Okay.
- That's the second time
that Emma was attacked
by a patient today.
- Okay.
- ICE took one of my nurses.
and these cyber-assholes
have thrown us back into 1999.
- Well. I'm worried about you.
You are not yourself today.
- That makes two of us. then.
- Do you have something
you want to say?
Go ahead.
I can take it.
- All right. then yeah.
Sometimes it's like
you're just tempting death
'cause you don't give
a shit anymore.
- So this is about
the motorcycle?
- It's not just
about the motorcycle.
It's about
the whole damn thing.
Robby. you're actually
telling people
that you're going to a place
called Smash My Head In.
- Close. not quite.
That's not--
- Robby. your buddy Duke
is insisting on leaving.
and that MVA is here.
- Okay. I'll be right there.
- What's open?
- Uh. South 15.
- 78-year-old woman.
very low speed
auto versus pedestrian
with ground-level fall.
Bruising on her left hip.
No head trauma.
- Her husband.
Eddie. came along.
- Hi. How do you do. sir?
I'm Dr. Robby. Come with us.
We're gonna get you
set up right over here.
- [shouts in pain]
- Sorry.
We'll get you something
for the pain shortly.
- Thank you.
- Do you have
any medical problems. Frida?
- Uh. high blood pressure.
low thyroid. um. AFib.
- Any chest pain.
shortness of breath?
- No.
- Front-row seat. sir.
- So. um. what happened?
- Well. she walked
into the car.
- [scoffs]
You hit me.
- No. I didn't hit you.
You hit the car.
- You backed up right into me.
- I wasn't even moving.
- [chuckles]
Well. you're both
in very good hands now.
Yes?
- Before we get you in a gown.
we'd like to check your hip.
- Of course.
- I am sorry.
We had a whole bunch
of craziness come in.
and you got bumped down
a patient or two for CT.
But take comfort in knowing
it was
for some pretty nasty stuff.
- How am I supposed
to find comfort in that
or anything you've told me
since I got here.
for that matter?
- I don't know.
But everything is supposed
to come with a lesson. right?
- Oh. this is more of your Zen
motorcycle bullshit.
- Maybe.
No. no. the truth is.
I'm just stalling
'cause it's gonna be
a while longer.
- Oh. hey. look.
I appreciate the effort.
but you guys
are obviously jammed up.
I'll just come back when it's
not our nation's birthday.
- You're already here.
It's not gonna be
that much longer. I promise.
Just stay and get your CT.
- I will do it all
when you get back
and this place is less crazy.
- This place is always crazy.
I don't know
when I'm gonna get back.
Can you just sit the fuck down
and wait a little bit longer?
It won't kill you.
but leaving might.
- [sighs]
Okay.
No problem.
- Thank you.
- That's a nasty bruise.
- Do you take aspirin
or any blood thinners?
- Uh. Eliquis for my AFib.
- Any tenderness here?
- No. not really.
- Here?
- Oh. yeah. that hurts.
- All right. 4 of. uh. morphine
and Zofran.
- What about up here?
- Not really.
- All right. so let's start
with labs and plain film.
- No. CT abdomen pelvis.
We'll get a better view of
the hip and check for bleeding.
The Eliquis is concerning.
- Uh. you think
she broke her hip?
- If it's broken. you broke it.
- Usually for a broken hip.
the leg is shortened
and rotates out.
but we'll just wait
for CT results.
- Mr. Cohen...
I know that you were checked
on scene.
but I was wondering
if I could do
a quick examination of you.
- Oh. no. I'm fine.
I was in the car.
- Just unofficially.
- Okay.
- Deep breath for me.
- [breathes deeply]
- Good. Again.
- Great.
Thanks. Eddie.
Next thing--would you mind
taking your shoes off?
- Uh...
what for?
- Just being safe.
- [groans]
My back's not
what it used to be.
- Let me help you.
- I. uh. could use a pedicure.
- You and me both.
Dr. King. what do you think
about doing a Romberg test?
- What is that?
- It's a general evaluation
of balance.
Um. can you stand up. sir?
- Yep.
[clears throat]
[monitor beeping rapidly]
- How are you doing. Oliver?
- Sats are not coming up.
- Pressure's holding
on 400 of nitro.
Let's up the BiPAP to 20 on 10.
- We could try phlebotomy.
Decrease the fluid burden
on the lungs.
- Old school.
but might buy time.
- Hemoglobin is only 9.2.
- He's anemic
from renal failure.
- Then he can't afford
more blood loss.
- We need to intubate.
We're losing this war.
- Intubation's not
a trivial matter
for immunosuppressed patients.
- So we just drop
a bunch of red tops?
- No. we do the collection
on the floor
as if he's giving blood.
- Like medieval bloodletting.
- Essentially.
and that is something
you should step out for. Mason.
Casey. thank you.
- Got a good vein for a 16.
- One donor bag. 500 cc's.
No more.
- [inhales deeply]
- Okay. let it out.
- [exhales]
- Same again.
Deep breath in.
- [breathes deeply]
- Great.
All done.
- How's she doing?
- Pulse ox 100%. normal exam.
No evidence of injury.
- Great.
- I got way worse
from my older brothers.
- I bet.
- All right. I'll go. uh.
write up her chart.
- How about we call it a day?
- My shift isn't over.
- This was a shift and a half
for anyone today. believe me.
- If it's all right with you.
I'd rather stay.
I'm not a quitter.
- Okay. Ms. Emma. good for you.
But stick close to Donnie for
the rest of the day. would you?
- Sure.
- And you also need to make
a statement to the police.
If we don't stand up for
ourselves. no one else will.
We're here to help.
not to be punching bags.
- Thank you for saving me.
- I got you. girl.
[indistinct chatter]
- Something wrong?
- That depends.
Are you a four-month-old
with severe diaper rash?
- No. I'm Dorion Cole.
and I'm pretty sure
that I broke my collarbone.
- Okay. we can help with that.
I'll be back.
- Wait. wait.
Are you serious?
Can I at least get something
for my pain?
- Sure. Sit tight.
- [scoffs] This place sucks.
- Tell me about it.
Try working here.
- Boy. you're
really working hard
to boost those
patient satisfaction scores.
- The chart for Central 7
doesn't match
the patient that's in there.
- Hang in there.
We're almost over this.
- I was over this
six hours ago.
- Chairs is looking like
Mullaney's on St. Paddy's Day.
They're gonna break through
the doors like zombies...
- Incoming.
- If we don't start moving
more of the meat back there.
- Dante Casella. 34.
Blunt trauma from a fireworks
explosion in a storage unit.
A and O. good vitals.
large scalp laceration
and bruising to the chest.
No meds or allergies.
- Partial
or full thickness burns?
- No burns.
The blast launched him
into a rolled-down
garage door frame.
- Am I fucking dying here?
- I'm Dr. Robby.
This is Dr. Santos.
- What? I can't hear you.
- Try the other side.
- I'm Dr. Santos.
Can you hear me?
- Yeah. yeah.
Dante.
Lot of ringing.
- Hey. McKay. Joy.
you're with us.
- One. two. three.
- [groaning]
I need. like. four doctors?
Oh. shit. I knew it was bad.
- This is a teaching hospital.
You get all the extra help
you need.
- Airway and breathing intact.
- Good lung sliding
bilaterally.
- [groaning]
- Tender over the sternum--
possible fracture.
That's your breastbone.
[machine beeps]
- No ectopy on monitor.
- No pericardial effusion.
The heart looks good.
- 130 over 85.
Pulse 108. sats 98 on 2 liters.
- Good enough for 50 of fent.
- He soaked through
his head dressing.
- Let's take a peek.
- Normally. we don't deal
with scalp lacs
on the primary survey.
only if there's
active bleeding.
- With blast injuries.
the pressure wave
can transmit energy
through the body
and cause internal damage
even without
any external visible signs.
especially with organs
that are air filled.
How are we looking. Dr. Santos?
- E-FAST negative.
No free fluid in the belly.
- [groaning]
- Fuck me.
- What--what is it?
- It's a pretty big flap.
Checking for bleeding source.
- Is that through the galea?
- It is. indeed.
- Crack my head open or what?
- Don't worry.
Your skull is intact.
It's just a. uh. very deep cut.
- [groans]
- Ugh.
- Okay. we got a couple
arterioles that need control.
- Figure-of-eight sutures?
- Dr. Santos for 800.
- What are Raney clips. Alex?
Quicker than sutures.
- Ding. ding. ding. ding.
Okay. clamp those bleeders.
call for CT.
I'll be next door. and Duke's
CT line keeps growing.
- 500 cc's out.
- How you doing. Oliver?
- [groans]
- Making some progress in here.
- Can't tell
if it was the phlebotomy
or if the nitro
finally kicked in.
- Oh. could have been both.
- Potassium's high. 6.5.
- Be expected
with the missed dialysis
and the added heat stress.
- He needs. uh--
- Dr. Javadi.
- Uh. he needs insulin
and glucose
to shift the potassium
intracellular.
- Exactly.
Uh. 10 units. amp of D-50.
- Start with 5 milligrams
of nebulized albuterol.
It'll shift some potassium
and help his breathing.
- He's at risk for arrhythmias.
- Mm. no peaked T waves.
no QRS widening.
Insulin puts him at risk
for hypoglycemia.
And you tie up nurses
with frequent Accu-Cheks.
- Dr. Al-Hashimi's right.
The nebs will hold him over
until dialysis gets here.
You got this?
- Mm-hmm.
[door opens]
All good in here?
- Yep.
Uh. I'm gonna go give
this guy's kid an update.
He's probably freaking out.
Come find me if you need me.
- Uh. yep.
- Um. hey.
Where'd you learn
that shoe trick?
- Oh. I did a clerkship
at NJMS senior care.
One of the attendings
always said you can learn a lot
about your patients
just by looking at their feet.
[bell dings]
- Bravo. ladies.
Now on to the next
lucky customers.
- Probably gonna have
to stay late
to catch up
on all these patients.
- Night-shift reinforcements
will be here soon.
We're supposed to be
speeding up in the 11th hour.
not slowing down.
They don't call it
the final sprint for nothing.
Chop-chop.
- Is that the. uh. mom
of the heatstroke?
- Yeah.
- Do you believe
it was just an accident?
- Does it matter?
- As a doctor. no.
But as a mom...
- Sometimes I can't tell
if motherhood has made me
more understanding
or more judgmental.
- Dana. got a couple visitors.
- Uh. my--my brother.
There was an explosion.
- Hi.
My mom was in a car accident.
- Uh. okay. Monica.
can you help these fine folks
find their loved ones?
- Yeah.
- And. Princess. what are you
still doing here?
Don't you got some crazy luau
pig roast barbecue thing
to get to?
- It's lechón. but. yes. I do.
I'm gonna sneak out in a few.
- Okay. yeah. yeah.
Go have some fun
for both of us. all right?
- Don't stay too late.
- [scoffs] Okay.
- [groans softly]
- Hello. Ms. Stevens.
I'm Dr. McKay.
How you feeling?
- Stupid...
and really. really sore.
- Yeah. we'll. uh. get you
something for your pain. okay?
- [groans]
- Your last patient
left her blanket.
- Oh.
Uh. yeah.
I...
yeah. I'll take it.
Thanks. Esme.
Um. I'll be right back. yeah?
Fuck!
[sighs]
- You good?
- Yeah. yeah.
I'm just--I'm looking
for something to put this in.
A. uh--a patient left it.
She died. the. uh. cancer mom
with the two kids.
- [sighs]
Sounds like a tough one.
- Yeah. that one sucked.
Seeing those two young boys
say goodbye to their mother
was brutal.
Just makes you want to cry.
- You should cry.
You'll feel better.
- I wish I could.
No. I don't even remember
the last time I cried.
I'm not even sure
I can anymore.
Is that what this place
does to you?
- We get pretty good
at shutting down our feelings.
- Yeah. I'm a little scared
I've shut them off for so long.
I don't know how to turn them
back on again.
I just wish I could cry again.
you know?
- You want a hug?
- God. no.
- Your mom is stable.
but she's still waiting
on the imaging of her hip.
We'll know more soon.
You can wait with your dad
in the meantime.
- I've told him a million times
he shouldn't be driving
anymore.
- May I ask what their home
situation is like right now?
- I don't know. they live
over in Squirrel Hill.
Same house I grew up in.
just the two of them.
- We noticed your father
exhibiting signs
of an unsteady gait.
along with other balance
and mobility issues.
- He sees an internist.
neurologist.
cardiologist.
gastroenterologist.
He's got a whole team
of "ologists."
Both my parents used to be
in pretty great shape.
but lately. it's like they can
barely get up the stairs.
Half their house
isn't accessible to them.
- Have you looked
into assisted living options?
- Yes. but they refuse
to even talk about it with me.
- Mr. Cohen.
you have a visitor.
- Care Bear.
- Dad.
You feeling okay?
- No. I'm feeling dumb.
- Carrie. this is Dr. King.
who will be assisting
with your mother's care.
I was just explaining
that the treatment
depends on the injuries.
but there are
complicating factors.
We are required
to report impairments
that might affect driving.
and you will likely have
to take another driver's test
to keep your license.
- What's that got
to do with Frida?
- Well. if the hip injury
is serious
and you're also. uh. limited.
then it could mean
an "unsafe to return home"
recommendation for your wife.
- You'd be looking
at a temporary move
to some form of assisted living
and rehabilitation
for Frida's care.
- How temporary?
- Best case.
three to six months.
but she may never return
to the functionality she had
prior to the injury
and recovery.
- Okay. well. kill me now.
- See what I'm dealing with?
Dad. you need to find somewhere
to live that is safer
and healthier for both of you.
- You--you know. the new
communities are not anything
like the old. scary
nursing homes.
They're really nice. and you
get your own apartment.
And. um. you know. my sister
actually lives in one.
She just loves it.
- When the dog dies.
we can talk.
- What if you fall?
What if you have
a heart attack or a stroke.
and there's no one there
to help you?
- You worry too much.
- How can I not?
Look what happened today.
- Okay. we're gonna leave
you two alone.
We'll come back
with Mrs. Cohen.
- Hey. Robby. our scalp victim
is back from CT.
They're prepping him now.
- Shit.
Uh. okay.
I'm coming.
Um...
- Is your friend doing okay?
- He's on my flight risk radar.
- Oh. and Dana put McKay on the
guy who attacked the new nurse.
Is she okay?
- Physically. yes.
I heard you had a little chat
with Langdon earlier.
- Yeah. water under the bridge.
- You have to figure out a way
of working with him
now that he's back.
- Or until he relapses.
- You're becoming
a very good doctor.
Don't let old conflicts
get in the way.
Speaking of which.
I want you and everybody else
to see the trauma counselor
while I'm gone. yes?
- Yes.
- And I asked Whitaker
to house-sit for me
while I'm gone.
I figured that would distract
from the whole
farmer's widow thing.
- Wait. what?
- Bring in the mail.
water the plants--cool?
- Cool. Yeah. Fine.
- That looks good.
You can start the repair
after this one.
- Feeling any pain. sir?
- [groggily]
Uh. no pain. just wet.
- You already numbed him up?
- I did.
- 1% with epi.
- CT back yet?
- No. not yet.
- I watched the slices come up.
Isolated sternal fracture.
Everything else looked normal.
Could send him home.
but given the mechanism.
should probably watch him
overnight.
- I agree with Dr. Garcia.
- I agree with Dr. Garcia. too.
- Three-layer closure--
galea. sub-Q. skin staples.
Enjoy the fireworks.
And hey. if I don't see you
before you leave.
don't forget to buy me
a souvenir.
like a custom elk-bone-carved
hunting blade.
- Nothing less
for my favorite butcher.
- Aww. you're gonna make
a great ex-husband
one day. Robinavitch.
- Hospital's got a defense
attorney looking for Jesse.
Probably took him
to an ICE detention center.
Said we shouldn't hold
our breath. though.
Whatever happened
to "we the people." huh?
[indistinct radio chatter]
Anything back
on that drunk son of a bitch
that attacked Emma?
- Not yet.
- Christ's sake.
- I'm making a run now.
I'll ask.
- Yeah.
- That's the guy
who attacked Emma?
- Mm-hmm.
- That's intense.
How you doing?
- Peachy.
- Oh. that's me.
Hey. you did what you had to do
with that guy.
Everything's gonna be fine.
- From your lips.
- Box of class B
launch tubes to the van.
Next second. kaboom!
[chuckles]
I get launched 10. 15 feet
across the garage.
right up into the lift track.
Hit something hard.
Uh. I don't really remember
the rest.
Oh. just my brother screaming.
help. help!
I'm lying there thinking.
oh. he must be dying.
I guess it was me
he was screaming about.
- Your brother is
in the family room.
He's waiting to see you.
and he is alive and well.
[device clicks]
- Oops.
- "Oops"?
What--what's oops mean?
Hello?
- It's nothing to worry about.
We never say "oops"
in front of a patient.
All right. try again.
- You sure?
- Mm-hmm.
- Okay.
Better.
Keep going.
- You might want to leave
the fireworks
to the professionals.
- We are professionals.
Got our official PDA consumer
license a few years back.
Gunpowder's in my blood. man.
Nothing like that...
[whistling. imitates explosion]
- [sighs]
- [chuckles]
Ain't no fighting it.
- Amor fati.
- More like memento mori.
- Tomato. tom-ah-to.
- Am I. like. the only one
who didn't study Latin
for med school?
- Yep.
- Yes.
- And finished.
- Nicely done.
- Can I see my brother now?
- Yep.
- Oh. motherfucker.
- Chest pain?
- Only when I move.
- That would be the fracture
in your sternum.
which we will give you
another 4 of morphine for that.
Thank you.
- And try no laughing
or sneezing
for the next four weeks.
- [chuckles. groans]
- Mr. Haas. we're gonna
switch you over
to a high-flow nasal oxygen
instead of the BiPAP
and see how you do.
- This looks promising.
- Repeat potassium is at 6.1
with the albuterol.
- [breathing deeply]
[sighs]
Feeling a...
a little better.
Don't you ever tell your mother
about how fast you drove here.
- I thought you were gonna die.
- Any longer.
and he might have. so good job.
- Boy just got his permit
last week.
Felt like I was living
in one of those
"Fast and the Furious" movies.
- [chuckles] I can't believe
Pine Ridge closed.
When did that happen?
- I read about it
a few months ago.
Medicare spending cuts.
- Are there any other
emergency rooms in the area?
- Nope.
It's gonna be
a long way to drive
for folks out where we live.
- Mr. Haas. you'll need
to stay here a few hours.
Get you tuned up.
- Yeah. I know the drill.
- Hey. you know. Mason.
if you're hungry.
we've got
a pretty good cafeteria.
- Don't lie to him.
- We have a cafeteria.
- I'm just gonna stay here
with my dad.
- Yeah. sure.
- Thank you for saving him.
- Are you still thinking
rural emergency medicine
when you're done here?
- Um. not thinking. doing.
- God. I hope there are
still some hospitals left
for you to work at.
- Yeah.
- Oh!
So the march of the walking
dead night shift begins.
First one in. Mateo.
You get a gold star.
- What happened in here?
I left you guys
with a layup this morning.
- Don't ask.
- Speaking of layups.
what up. Dr. J?
- Oh. right.
That was. um. some sort of
basketball player. wasn't it?
- Shame on you.
Only the greatest Sixer
to ever play the game.
- Week one of year four
of med school.
You'll be ordering me around
before you know it.
Gonna join the dark side
when you graduate?
- The emergency department?
- The night shift. baby.
It's wild.
- Um...
I haven't even decided what
residency I'm applying for yet.
- You'll figure it out.
Got lots of time.
- Tell that to my parents.
- Dana. results are back
on your guy.
- Give me those.
- I-I choked her?
No. I would never do
something like that.
- But you did.
[slam on window]
Can you. uh--sorry. can you
excuse me for a minute?
Jesus Christ. Dana.
- Read.
What's he saying. anyway?
- He's in a bit of shock.
Claims he doesn't remember
anything.
Says he was on the golf course
getting boozy.
maybe a little too boozy.
Things get hazy. next thing
you know. he's on the floor
and everyone's
screaming at him.
- How convenient.
- Maybe it's better
for both of you
that he doesn't remember
what happened.
- Let me know when you're ready
to take my statement.
- All right. well.
the good news is.
your CT was negative
for skull fracture
or intracranial hemorrhage.
- You mean that's good news for
you and that blonde nurse lady.
- But your lab results
were positive for alcohol
and cocaine.
- [scoffs]
Okay. you got me.
I did a couple
of birdie bumps on the turn.
but we were just having fun
on the golf course.
- Look. when alcohol
is mixed with cocaine.
your liver produces
a metabolite
called cocaethylene.
- What does that
have to do with me
allegedly doing what you said?
- It's a psychoactive molecule
more toxic and potent
than cocaine.
And it can lead to confusion.
paranoia. aggression.
and even psychosis.
- [sighs]
What happens now?
- We're gonna monitor you
for a few hours.
especially given
your likely concussion.
And you'll need to give
a statement
to the police outside
in the meantime.
- Oh. you lucky
this was just a poke.
Spared the muscle.
- See?
It could have been worse.
- No shit. Sherman.
The triangular bayonets
they created back then
were designed to leave wounds
that are nearly impossible
to stitch.
- Those bayonets
had never met me.
- Oh. wow.
- What?
- It's all good.
We got it covered.
- No. are you guys
from the Fort Pitt Museum?
- Yeah. You familiar?
- Yeah.
I love you guys.
My mom would take me
to the fort
every time we'd come down
to visit family as a kid.
- We've been volunteering there
as living historians
for over 20 years.
- I probably saw you then.
Man. I can't wait to tell
my parents about this.
- Getting stabbed
must have been scary.
- Yeah. well. Poindexter here
stumbled over his boots
and nearly impaled me.
- Wouldn't have mattered if you
weren't out of formation.
- You're in good hands.
This guy could have saved
a lot of lives
with his sutures back in 1776.
- I was not out of formation.
- You were out of formation.
- Hi. again.
Good news. Mrs. Cohen.
Your imaging results
show no hip fracture
and no internal bleeding.
But you do have
a small hairline fracture
of the superior pubic ramus.
- Well.
that doesn't sound good.
- Well. if you're gonna
have a fracture.
it's the best one to have.
- Do I need to stay
in the hospital?
- Not necessarily.
Your recovery should be
pretty straightforward
if we can control your pain.
But you need to take it easy
and stay off your feet
for six to eight weeks.
- How can she go home
if she can't walk?
- Oh. she can bear weight
and walk with some help.
And we'll get you a walker
and schedule physical therapy.
- So--so we can go home.
- [laughing] Yes.
- Dad. you can't take care
of Mom all by yourself.
- Oh. we'll manage.
- You guys. you need
to be realistic.
- I don't want strangers
hanging around in the house.
- It's not strangers.
It's helpers.
- Mm-mm. no.
No. thanks.
- Mm-mm.
- Doctors. please.
- I am worried
about your ability
to get the assistance
you need. Mrs. Cohen.
It may be time to think about
some of those
alternative living options
we mentioned.
- I can take care of her.
- Dad. are you gonna be able
to get her into the bathroom
onto the toilet
in the middle of the night?
Are you gonna help her change
her clothes in the morning?
Are you gonna--
- We're--we're fine.
- Dad. please just try it.
You don't have to sell
the house right away.
Just see if you like it.
- You could move in with us.
- No. I can't.
I have work. I have the kids.
I can't.
- No. No. No.
No. Okay?
Just no.
- Carrie. could I speak
with you outside for a minute?
[door opens]
- It's like that every time.
- It's tough to find
the balance
between respecting your
loved ones' needs for agency
and doing what's best
for their safety.
I was wondering if you had
your parents' medication lists
with you or on your phone.
- Yeah.
- I'd like to take a quick
look at it. if that's okay.
- Yeah.
- My man. how you doing?
- Like you better roll in
a bar cart
and a happy hour buffet
if I'm gonna be stuck
in this place much longer.
- This place is a traffic jam.
We're trying to merge you in.
I promise.
- That's no traffic jam.
That's a 20-car pileup.
- The sooner you get out.
the sooner I get out.
so you know
I'm not bullshitting you.
- Why are you jonesing
so hard to get out
and start your ride tonight?
- I've got a schedule.
I've got places to go.
I've got people to see.
I just have to get going.
- You're worried
if you don't leave tonight.
you won't leave at all.
[sighs]
Look. I get it.
I can feel it in the air here.
This place is like quicksand.
- [breathes deeply]
Right.
[clears throat]
- Dr. Robby?
Uh. Dante. the fireworks guy--
something's wrong.
- Okay. shit.
- [sighs]
- Um. do not go anywhere.
You are next up.
I'm gonna deliver you myself.
- I'm starting to feel like
a hostage in this place.
- How do you think I feel?
[indistinct chatter]
[phone ringing]
[monitor beeping rapidly]
What's going on?
- Fucking chest hurts.
[wheezing]
- Systolic's down to 78.
- Blood loss from scalp lac?
- Uh. that's highly unlikely.
Dr. Santos?
- Good breath sounds.
But neck veins are up.
Checking the heart now.
- Okay. 500-cc bolus.
100% non-rebreather please.
- Okay. pericardial effusion.
RV collapse--it's tamponade.
- Yeah. let's prep
for a pericardiocentesis.
- What's going on?
Is he gonna be okay?
You said he was fine.
- CT scan was normal.
- Things change.
- Dante. there is a collection
of blood around your heart.
We need to drain it.
- Oh. fuck.
- Okay. 0.5 per kilo
ketamine. please.
- Won't that drop
his pressure even more?
- We don't have a choice.
We cannot do this
on a moving target.
- Dante. Jesus fucking Christ.
It's my baby brother.
- Hey. Perlah?
- Sir. I'm so sorry.
but you can't
be in here right now.
- What's wrong with him?
Hey. Dante. Dante.
Hey. just hear me--
- Okay. I'm so sorry.
You can't be in there
right now. okay?
We have to stabilize.
- They said he was fine.
- Yeah. Okay.
There's been a complication.
I just need you to take
a couple deep breaths
and try to stay calm.
- Please. Please.
- Okay. just breathe with me.
In. Okay. out.
Look at me.
Breathe in.
- [breathes deeply]
- Out.
Very good.
In. out.
Okay. stay calm. okay?
We got this.
- I can't leave
you pendejos alone.
- Tamponade with shock.
- From what?
- Uh. I'm guessing a small tear
in the right atrium
from the sternal fracture.
- If it was ventricular.
he would have crashed
in the field.
I'll call cardiothoracic.
See if they have an OR.
- Systolic's down to 64.
- Okay. have you ever done
an apical approach?
- Nope.
- No time like the present.
Go lateral to my probe.
- Why not subcostal?
- This is a shorter distance.
There are fewer structures.
If you can see fluid.
there's nothing
between the probe
and the pericardial.
- There? There.
the needle's in the effusion.
- Mm-hmm. Draw back.
- Good blood return.
- Okay. sometimes it only takes
20 cc's
to let that heart fill again.
- Carotid pulse much stronger.
- Thanks. Be right up.
They'll have a room
ready in five.
- All right.
that is 40 cc's out.
- Blood pressure's up.
90 systolic.
- Okay. now we're gonna place
the J wire.
and we're gonna leave
the catheter in
with a three-way stopcock.
- Still bleeding
from the heart.
- He can live
with a little blood loss
but not with a pressure bag
squeezing his heart
so it can't beat.
- Good thing
we didn't send him home.
Nice save. Robby.
You too. Trinity.
- Is that an actual compliment?
- Sometimes you guys get lucky.
- Got a couple of bad ones.
How old is he?
- 84.
- Meclizine for vertigo.
Anticholinergic effects
can cause drowsiness.
It's PRN. so maybe he doesn't
take it all the time.
He's also been prescribed
methocarbamol.
another anticholinergic.
- Could definitely
impair driving.
- And metoclopramide
for his stomach.
- That could cause
gait problems.
- Exactly.
- Dr. Robby. may we present?
- Yeah. what do you got?
Hey. you should
probably get started
crossing your T's
and dotting your I's
for night shift handoff
- Right.
Well. vaya con Dios.
or whatever the bikers
are saying these days.
- Our elderly couple.
Frida and Ed...
- We're anxious about their
ability to recover at home
or to remain at home
in general.
- But a number
of Mr. Cohen's medications
are on the Beers List.
and they may be contributing
to his deteriorating health.
- "May be"?
- We can't be certain.
But none of them
are critical meds.
We could have him
stop them right now.
follow up with his PCP.
see how he's doing
in a few weeks.
- Run it by the family.
Sometimes just affirming
a patient's...
independence. autonomy can do
a world of good.
Um. hey. Dr. Mohan.
I heard a rumor that you were
looking for an elective.
Consider geriatrics.
It's as much of an art
as a science.
There's usually an opening.
and you seem to have
a predisposition to the pace.
[breathes deeply]
Hey. have you seen Dana?
- I think she went out
for a smoke.
lucky girl.
[indistinct radio chatter]
- You ever gonna tell me
what really happened in there?
- In where?
- You could lose
your nursing license.
Let me guess--that vial
of Versed in your pocket.
you drew that up
for Doug Driscoll
in case he ever came back.
and now you've just been
carrying it around ever since.
- I did exactly
what I needed to.
and now there's a young nurse
who gets to go home
in one piece because of me.
McKay can sign the Versed order
for me if you won't.
- I will sign the order!
I will sign an extra order
so you can have one
when I'm gone.
That's hardly the point.
It's not exactly like
I'm against nurse safety.
I'm trying to advocate
for your caution.
because you're the person
who's supposed to be here
keeping this running
while I'm gone.
not roaming the halls
like a vigilante
with a loaded syringe
and a vendetta!
- It's always "do as I say.
not as I do"
with you. isn't it?
What is wrong with you today?
- Samira missed a triple-A.
Mel and Ellis had a deposition.
McKay's treating people
in the park. Fucking Langdon--
- At some point.
you and Langdon
got to work this out.
- I don't want him here!
- He made a mistake.
and he paid for it.
- Did he? Did he go to jail?
Because I let him get away
with a crime.
So what does that make me?
- Human!
Are you angry at him.
or are you angry at you?
- Somebody could have died.
- Oh. it's the ED.
Somebody's always dying.
- Go ahead and make jokes.
Make jokes instead
of acknowledging that--
- Langdon didn't kill anybody.
- That we know of.
- And he saved a lot of lives
that we do know of.
Our kids disappoint us
sometimes.
- Langdon is not a kid.
- No. but he's your guy.
and you're taking it
personally.
Langdon fucked up.
and you think
that makes you look bad.
but it's on him.
- How am I supposed
to leave this place
when it's a shit show?
- First you can't stay.
Now you can't go.
What is it. Robinavitch?
- No. I'm going.
I just thought I could leave it
a little better when I did.
- Oh. don't be such a martyr.
This place is always teetering
on the brink of disaster.
with or without you.
We do it every night.
every day off.
This place is bigger
than one person.
It survived without Adamson.
it survived without me.
and it'll survive without you.
- My meds are making me worse?
- Not worse.
but they may be impacting
your balance and mobility.
- Why would his doctors
prescribe drugs
that could harm him?
- Oh. it's not
any one medication.
It's the combination
that could be impairing
his daily functioning.
- We have a case manager
that will put together
a robust plan
that I think will make
everyone happy.
while allowing you
to stay at home.
- There's regular
physical therapy.
an at-home nurse that visits
a few times a week. and. um...
oh. even personal shoppers
to help with groceries.
- This sounds expensive.
- Actually. Medicare covers
most of it.
with some assistance
from the Area Agency on Aging.
- You know. every old person
knows what it is to be young.
but no young person can know
what it is to be old.
Thank you for listening.
- You guys are still
coming with me
to visit a few
assisted living places
just in case it's ever time.
- Well. maybe.
- Hey.
You. uh--you doing all right?
- Never better.
Thanks. Bye.
God. you're really just gonna
keep standing there.
aren't you?
- Yeah.
What's going on?
- It was literally my first day
of being a doctor.
and Langdon gaslit me
and made me question my skills
over and over.
And it's taken me a long time
to feel like I belong here.
and now he's back.
And I don't even care
that he was an addict.
I care that he was
a fucking asshole.
And it's like no one here
even remembers any of this.
And everyone here talks
about community and family.
all while they throw you
under the bus. and I--
Robby is the only attending
who actually sees
through the bullshit.
but now he's leaving for some
grand ego-death spirit quest.
and Robo-Doc over there shoots
me in the proverbial dick.
- Well. Garcia's here.
She likes you. right?
- She doesn't like me.
She likes getting laid.
I'm her stress relief
squeeze toy--or was.
You know. she and Langdon
would make a great couple.
- Yeah.
That's dark.
I'm sorry.
- Yeah?
Why do you care?
- Well. 'cause we're friends.
I thought--I think.
- Are we?
Because on top of all of that.
you're the one who's being
super shady
about moving out on me.
- Moving out?
- Yeah. I heard
you're gonna go squat
at Robby's sad bachelor pad.
- Honestly. I thought
that was your idea to get me
to move out of the apartment.
- No. no.
I wanted him to give you
some fatherly advice
about going all Farmers Only.
not giving you the keys
to his fucking house.
- Oh. my God.
- [sighs]
No. I know it was
none of my business.
- No. it's not that.
It's...
you actually like
living with me. don't you?
- What are you talking about?
- [chuckles]
- You leave your dirty clothes
everywhere.
You eat all of my avocados
as soon as they ripen.
You keep pausing the TV
to ask the dumbest questions.
No. I'm going back
to the avocado thing.
because I've never seen
someone consume so many.
It's disgusting--
- Just say it.
and I won't move out. okay?
I'm not gonna be doing much
at Robby's.
I'm gonna be taking in
his mail.
I'm gonna be
watering his plants.
- Say what?
- [scoffs]
Admit that you like having me
as your roommate.
- You are such a fuckle-berry.
Have fun with Robby's plants.
- You have no idea how much joy
that just brought me.
- Hey.
- How much longer until I get
these things off and go home?
- Oh...
[chuckles]
You assaulted a nurse.
- Yeah--you said it was
the cocaethylene thing
that made me go crazy.
- Well. if you're drunk
and you kill someone.
you still kill someone.
So after we clear you
in a few hours.
you're gonna take a ride with
the uniformed officer outside.
who's gonna take you in
for processing.
- No. No. no. no.
this cannot be happening.
- No. since you golf
and can buy cocaine.
I assume you can post bail
after your arraignment.
- You're gonna ruin
my fucking life!
- But it being our nation's
big. beautiful birthday.
that hearing may take
longer than usual.
So I'd cancel any grand plans
you have for the Fourth.
You know. I...
I can leave you with these.
- Rehab? Fuck off.
I'm suing this whole hospital
and you for personal injury.
- Well. good luck convincing
a jury of that one.
- Oh. fuck this whole place...
- Asshole.
- And fuck all of you!
No. not you. Officer.
Fuck!
- Make sure discharge charts
are bundled and placed
in the "to be scanned" bin
with nursing notes.
order sheets.
lab. and X-ray results.
Day shift needs
completed T sheets
on every patient
and to write on the board
what tests are pending
so nothing falls
through the cracks while
we wait to come back online.
- Westbridge
and Good Dominion
have settled
their cyber dispute.
- They paid the ransom?
- Yeah.
Our IT department is confident
in our defenses.
so they will be rebooting
everything soon...
slowly but surely.
- Okay.
So when everything
comes back on.
all the residents have to do
is scan all
the completed paper charts
and digitize them into the
patient's EHRs before they go?
- I'm never getting
out of this place.
- This means you're clear
for takeoff.
Nothing here we can't handle
with night shift coming in.
- Yeah. right.
Free to go.
Uh. hey. I told you
I would get you up there.
and I promise I'm not leaving
until you're back
and sent packing.
- Robby. buddy.
you got me to come in.
got me to take my tests.
You don't got to babysit me.
That's why I have a nurse.
What's your name. sweetheart?
- Nurse Vivi. sir.
- That's what I have
the lovely Nurse Vivi here for.
- This will not take very long.
- [laughs]
Where have I heard that before?
- Hey.
So. uh. this is it. huh?
- Uh. yeah.
Don't let the place burn down.
- You know...
in a previous life. I had a lot
of friends who liked to see
how close the edge was...
as if it was a challenge
they were called to meet.
Trouble is.
they all inevitably found it.
- Okay.
- I'm just picking up
on a weird vibe
from you today is all.
- [laughing] Yeah. well.
it's been a weird day.
- You leaving?
- Uh. yeah.
My shift is over. and I ain't
getting paid to be here.
Quite literally the opposite.
in fact.
- Well. I don't know
if you noticed.
but we're sort of. uh.
in disaster mode here still.
We put in the extra time
if we're needed.
- You know 62% of ED docs
report suffering from burnout?
- Painfully aware.
- Mm.
So maybe all you lunatics
need to learn
how to set some boundaries.
like me.
Well. see you tomorrow. Doc.
Good luck in there.
Sorry about the mess.
- "Mess"?
[indistinct chatter]
[bell dings]
Yup.
- Incoming.
- Head trauma.
Unwitnessed fall
from the warehouse catwalk
where he works
as a security guard.
- Oh. my God.
Orlando.
He left five hours ago.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org